# WLED Localization

The scripts and files in the wled00/I18N folder support static localization of the WLED program.
The files in wled00/src will be cached in I18N and then replaced with the localizated versions.  After that, the usual npm build scripts etc. is used.

The flow supported by the scripts is to perform internationalization by populating the I18N folder structure with the files requiring localization, and creating templatized files and a phrase index file.  The phrase file can then be translated into any language supported by Google Translate, and then applied back to the templatized files to create the localized files.

The intermediate JSON files can be tweaked as required.

## Steps for internationalization
1. Scope: Get list of files to be internationalized and localized.   
   Script: insert the writeHtmlGzipped() and writeChunks() lines from cdata.js into the script list.js.  This replaces the two functions so they simply output the filenames.    
   > node wled00/I18N/tools/list.js   
   JSON Output: I18N/src/list.json   
   Manual adjustment: Add anything that is missing.
2. Templatize the files in list.js:
   1. Replace the text in HTML tags and @title attributes with placeholders of the form ${hash:originaltext} and save the templatized files in place.  Existing placeholders are kept.  
   JS scripts that include text to be internationalized are manually modified to retrieve the text from a hidden HTML section.   
   If localization performance warrants it, HTML elements that require localization can be tagged with a designated @class so they can be found more quickly. (Note, that @class is not available for <title>)
   2. Tuples of (filepath,originaltext,hash) are appended to the data.json file.   
   Unneeded placeholders can be (automatically?manually?) tagged with 'delete:true' to flag them for removal when the internationalization process is deemed stable. 
   Script: templatize.py   
   JSON file: data.json
3. Perform the usual UI build process (npm build).
4. Prepare the I18N files for the JSON data retrieved and displayed in the UI, e.g. effect names, palette names.
   1. Invoke the JSON api for each of the required datasets, and save the results in json/<dataset>.json

## Translation preparation (each individual language)
1. Create a translation dictionary (translated phrase index).  Identical text across input files is grouped together, and then a translation service (e.g. googletrans API) is used to determine the translation.
   Script: L12N.py   
   JSON file (r/w): I18N/L12N/{lang}.json   
   If instances of a phrase should be translated in different ways, the different translations are created as sub-entries of the phrase. Subentries are grouped, qualified by filepath and index within filepath, and the variant translations are determined and recorded manually.   
2. Run the installLang.py script for each required language to create the language file in a format optimized for the browser to use.  
   Script: installLang.py   
   Input:  I18N/L12N/<lang>.json   
   Output: I18N/langs/<lang>.json

## Localization in the browser
1. The WLED server delivers templatized files (HTML, JSON).
2. For HTML pages, the localization script is included and is set to be the first script to run.  It retrieves the I18N/langs/<lang.json> translation file for corresponding to the WLED instance-wide language setting, and caches it in browser local storage. [TBD: scoping, as IP address for WLED instance may change]   
For each placeholder, the localization script in the browser looks up the translation information for the base entry, and if required, calculates the qualifier if required, that is used to select the desired translation if there are subentries.
3. For JSON retrieved data (e.g. effect names, palette names), for backward compatibility the data will still be served as the English names, which will be used as keys to the translation dictionary instead of the hashes.


# Required Libraries
The scripts use python3 and the libraries beautifulsoup4 and a working version of googletrans (I used 3.1.0a0)
